what is at the core of this crisis we
are experiencing today I'm going to show
you exactly what that is how we got to
this point and what you can do about it
you came here for the truth so let me
unveil that for you in today's video we
are going to first look at what's going
on with the Federal Reserve by extension
other central banks what they have been
doing and why this is the root cause the
core of the problems that we are
experiencing people are living paycheck
to paycheck more now than we have ever
seen before look at it compared to the
height of the financial crisis and all
other events prior to it and you can see
people are struggling during those times
but in a way in many ways in fact things
are actually worse but we are supposedly
in the good times you have to understand
how these metrics are calculated and
things that have gone up until this
point that have radically changed the
way that we have been dealing with
everything inside the economy first
things first though we need to look at
the core what is it all about now what
60,000 headlines say about the fed's
next move if you were on this channel
you knew exactly what happened with this
AI thing I'm going to talk about before
this article came out look this is brand
new article basically and I brought you
this information
since all all throughout basically
because I am obs obsessed with the
Federal Reserves data and I show you
everything related to it so you already
know this but let me explain why this is
important Fed chair Jerome Powell's
doish December pivot saved the US from
recession now getting inflation back
under control requires a hawkish
reversal this is what we talked about
all throughout I was telling everybody
this is a different one this is very
different things have really changed
here look at is wording quoting I've
been showing you all of that so you know
already right words are powerful for the
US economy no one's more so than those
of fed Cher Jon Powell okay you could
see that Bloomberg's economics fed
sentiment index powered by a natural
language processing algorithm based on
more than 60,000 fed headlines showed
that in December Powell delivered a
major pivot by hinting at a swifter
shift towards rate Cuts he gave markets
a boost and helped the economy Dodge a
downturn okay then we I just want to
talk about that for a second here number
one that's things like AI can do that
right that's what's good about this
so-called AI it's not actually AI but
this so-called AI can parse through a
lot of information and come up with a
summary based on that but I do that on
my own this is not artificial
intelligence this is just a guy who
reads all these things and puts it
together in the videos it's a slow
process right because you have to pay
attention every day but understand
what's been happening here how we got to
this Point more into it okay look you
could see so far so good but there's a
catch four months on with demand
powering ahead and inflation stuck above
Target Powell has been forced into a
reversal that stated uh started on the
margins of the imf's April meetings when
he said it is appropriate to allow the
restrictive policy further time to work
pushing the prospect of rate Cuts
further into the distance and that's why
suddenly we went from March rate cuts
into June July and now they're talking
about oh is it going to be in December
that's the big change all because of as
they say here December pivot pivot in
words not pivot in terms of policy okay
that was a move in the right direction
but our index shows it only undid a
fraction of the stimulus Unleashed by
his December pivot that means that
there's more to do to bring inflation
back under control we think that means
more hawkish words to come endorsing the
recent upward move in yield perhaps as
soon as this week's fed meeting so this
is where we start to get interesting I
want to break down what's happening as
we go through but understand that his
words Jerome Powells the fomc statements
all the members of the fomc their words
actually count towards what happens even
before any policy action is taken so
what do we have here we have the Federal
Reserve committing at this point to
keeping interest rates higher but all
the dam damage has already been done
that's the core the damage has been done
you can't get around that this was an
interesting U little drawing and it was
funny to me to see it how you seeing the
two humans dancing having a good time
while the robot is doing the work but
when I look closely at the robot it kind
of looks like he's a little bit
irritated and so on and it just makes me
think this is the future since the
Jetson that we've been envisioning where
the humans get to have all the fun and
the robots are doing all the work just
like AI artificial intelligence is going
to ease the burden on us robots are
going to do all the work for us we're
going to be on the Ubi and dancing with
our wives in the kitchen um we'll see if
that happens but there's a grand
disparity that's been growing around the
world some areas have actually improved
in The Last 5 Years but if you look at
let's just say we'll pick on Canada it
has declined in The Last 5 Years
unquestionably for the vast majority of
people okay the situation has declined
even the people in the 1% of incomes are
actually worse off today than they were
5 years ago everything has become more
expensive the debt has been accumulating
and so on so how is it what is the
future that we have in store well living
paycheck to paycheck Canadians are under
stress there's no question about that
what about this percentage change of
home buyers since
2015 looking at this firsttime home
buyers this Canadian okay I'll show you
with the us as well firsttime home
buyers declin to nothing okay why
because people cannot afford the prices
of today that's a simple matter of fact
simple matter of fact looking at this a
new wave of e-commerce disruption could
close 45,00 retail stores over the next
5 years it's whether it's because of
e-commerce whether you know for other
reasons retail stores are closing down
big box stores are closing down the mom
and pop shops are already closed and of
course Ecommerce is a cheaper way of
doing business I don't need a retail
establishment I can simply put my
products online I can have them on all
of the different you know places that
people buy stuff and they come in from
everywhere around the world
everywhere around the world people are
buying my products because of what's
Happening Here the big change that's
going on this means overwhelmingly when
you go to that warehousing model there
are less humans involved and it's going
to be you know a very different scenario
once there's a lot more automation being
used Amazon has I think 1.5 million
employees they employ a lot of people
there's no question about that even
though they they fired a bunch of people
but they actually employed like
something like 1.5 million people so
there's still a lot of people there but
they're bringing on robots as much as
they can and as soon as they can figure
out how the robot can do a better job
than the human uh at certain tasks they
will do that as well they will they will
eliminate where they can there's no
question about it because companies talk
about all the time increasing
productivity all the time you you see
that oh we need to increase productivity
who is the one more recently that talked
about this one of the top tech companies
either it was Mark Zuckerberg or you
know from Google or maybe Microsoft one
of those they were saying let's we we
either we fired a bunch of people
because we want to increase productivity
or we will something to that effect so
what are what are our places doing like
the cities the the countries that we're
living in like what kind of actions are
they taking look at this one example
terrible example New York City drivers
to start paying congestion tolls on June
30th so you want to drive into this
place because you got to get to work oh
now you're going to pay a toll to get in
that's going to solve the problem right
oh yeah who's this who does this hurt
does this hurt the billionaires does
this hurt the multi-millionaires or does
this hurt the guy who's driving in his
car that cost you know three grand that
he bought s year 10 years ago uh that
barely can make it into the City and he
now has to what take the subway in he's
got to go and find an alternate route
now somehow or maybe he's can't get work
in that area anymore he just can't
afford it this is this is terrible tax
this is a tax on people and it's not
going to impact the people at the very
top you see what's going on here we are
being squeezed living paycheck to
paycheck and it's everybody people love
to fight with you know amongst each
other hey that guy's got the BMW that
guy's got the marcedes he's bad well
it's not that because everybody is
getting squeezed sure they might if if
they drastically lower their you know
their like basically sell the home sell
the car sell everything do that but but
what has happened here since 2020 is
that everybody has been squeezed to the
point where they don't have much okay
they don't have that disposable income
anymore it's all
gone California fast food chains are now
serving sticker shock they give many
examples within this here all you need
to know is you know whatever the
different fast food places are they're
charging more the employees now are
getting paid like $20 an hour and so
immediately these restaurants if you can
call them that they started to
increase their prices there's no
question layoffs whatever they need to
do to remain profitable what is the end
result of this hey the Jetson we're
going to be going to there it's going to
be all based on robots and that's the
way we're going to be able to deal with
it now I thought to myself at a
restaurant recently
thinking what would be the optimal situ
scenario where the food comes out from
the chef the chef Cooks it hey maybe
it's a robot Chef the chef Cooks it and
now I have to wait for somebody to carry
that from all the way at the one end of
the restaurant all the way to where I'm
sitting and it's not at optimal you know
temperature by the time it makes it over
it's been sitting there for even just
say five minutes even if they're
efficient it would be much better if
that could be simply brought over
instantly so the chef puts it on the
robot
or the somehow it conveyor belts over
and is delivered I know they do have
that in limited cases but if they could
figure out how to do that better we're
going to increase the efficiency and
quite frankly less human beings are
needed increasing productivity right
well you see you see what's going on
this is one example of a country this is
UAE United Arab Emirates Dubai
specifically to proceed with a $35
billion expansion plan so they are
expanding the second airport this is the
secondary airport is going to be five
times bigger than uh I believe than the
current airport pumping in $35 billion
into this because they are going to see
hundreds of millions of people going
through their
airports okay it's it's used as an
international Hub all right but what is
going on here what is going you know if
you look back in
2008 and you would have said UAE or
Dubai as being the central Hub of the
world it's going to host all these major
events it's going to be this it's going
to be that you would have you you would
have laughed at it we see all those
articles from back then the half done
skyscrapers they were Building Homes and
and now look they they build a
subdivision they're already
pre-sold what's going on in one place
they investing billions and billions of
dollars into the infrastructure and in
other places West Western places the
stuff is falling apart my friends this
is a big
concern you see what's going on here you
devalue a currency and you run into to
problems long term this is Japan Japan
to the US dollar it is getting worse
rapidly and they have said we're we're
not going to we're not going to reverse
this we're not going to reverse this and
so the Japanese Yen will continue to
weaken all they needed to do was admit
they had a problem problem
initially deal with the consequences it
might have lasted a year maybe it's 2
years hey maybe it's three years and
they would have been back up and running
but instead they make their people
suffer for decades oh no the econom is
fantastic right yeah sure is sure is
this country is
permanently ruined in this respect
permanently you cannot print money to
resolve your
problems and so we have to learn from
this we have to have a period of
Darkness we have to have a period where
things are tough that's just the way it
goes if you don't experience that and
they're going to take care of you
they're going to pamper you we
ultimately will have a hard time the
more that they do things to ease the
burden actually that's worsening it in
the long term we need to face the music
but we we're not we're not going to do
that and so as a result currency the
values what can you do about this of
course you can have your money in other
currencies which hopefully remains
strong if you're in Canada for instance
is that going to weaken against the US
dollar looks like it is do I want to be
on the on the other side of that
equation surely okay so I teach people
on the Sunday business live about that
what about if we compare this to some of
these other other countries out there
that you look down the Horizon 10 years
from now they look like they're going to
be much stronger shape but their
currencies are weak now we can invest in
these places so that they will be better
off in a 10-year period um you know
there are many places but it just shows
us that things have really changed in
the last little while we need to watch
out I know that people have been stuck
in in their frame of mind and things but
we have to start opening up we really do
I get into that for 2 hours every single
Friday on the Friday Finance Friday
lives I hope that you'll join me on
there if you're interested in all that
is online business we talk about in the
Sunday business live you can't just go
and and skim off the top of all
information to get the the information
you need it it's just not going to
happen you need to dig in to the depths
that's what I do for the people live if
you found this information valuable hit
that thumbs up button and as always I'll
see you tomorrow take care